---
layout: post
title:  "Class 4"
date:   2016-01-24
categories: notes
permalink: class-4
---


# TOPICS

 + HTML5 Structure
 + HTML Review
 + Intro to CSS


# CLASS NOTES

#HTML video tag

Supporting multiple formats:
{% highlight html %}
<video width="320" height="240" controls>
	<source src="movie.mp4" type="video/mp4">
	<source src="movie.ogg" type="video/ogg">
	Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
{% endhighlight %}

The controls attribute adds video controls, like play, pause, and volume.

It is a good idea to always include width and height attributes.

If height and width are not set, the browser does not know the size of the video. The effect will be that the page will change (or flicker) while the video loads.


#HTML audio tag

Supporting multiple formats:
{% highlight html %}
<audio controls>
	<source src="audio.ogg" type="audio/ogg">
	<source src="audio.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
	Your browser does not support the audio tag.
</audio>
{% endhighlight %}





<br>

---

<br>


# Assignment 2: Assignment Portal

Create a one page index.html website which will be used to link to all of your work throughout the semester. Each time a new homework assignment or project is due, you will upload it to the Creative server and then create a hyperlink to that page on you Assignment Portal. You also must submit each assignment on Edmodo.

Name your .html file “index.html” and upload it directly into your public_html directory on your server space.

Your assignment portal URL will look like this: ***http://creative.colorado.edu/~identikey***

You are required to use this assignment portal to link to all of your work throughout the semester. If assignments and projects are not linked to your assignment portal, they will not be accepted for credit. If you end up changing your assignment portal address at some point during the semester, you must email me and let me know.

**Assignment 2 is due before class on 1/27**