---
layout: post
title:  "CSS NOTES"
date:   2016-02-04
categories: notes
permalink: css-notes
---

## CSS

**CSS**, or Cascading Style Sheets, is used to apply visual design to HTML elements. The use of style sheets came about in an effort to separate content from design in web documents. In the early days of HTML, all of the visual information was contained inside the HTML tags themselves, cluttering up the code with lots of information that wasn’t related to the core content of the document. With CSS, the design information is usually stored outside of the main HTML, so that an HTML document can focus on the information it intends to deliver.

As an added advantage, an HTML page can change its entire look by just applying a different style sheet. [CSS Zen Garden](http://www.csszengarden.com/) is a popular site that demonstrates this concept — it provides designers with an HTML document and invites them to submit CSS that implements a design without changing the original HTML. A quick look at the site shows you how vastly differently the same piece of HTML can look based on CSS styles.

CSS lets you select particular tags within an HTML document and apply a style. The style might define the background color, the font, or the layout of an element on a page. The tag/s you choose to style might be every link on the page, or one particular paragraph out of many. CSS syntax controls which tags you select, and hence, these rules are called “selectors”.

# Cascading?

Cascading refers to the parent-child structure of CSS. A style set on a parent element will also apply to its child elements, unless a child has style rules that override that of the parent. For example, if the body has a text color set of dark gray, and no other elements have text colors set, then all text on the page will display in dark gray. If, though, the list item tag sets its text color to red, then it will be red and not gray.

## Selectors

# Tag Selectors

The simplest type of selectors are tag selectors. These allow you to apply the same style to every tag of a particular type. For example, you might apply the same font to all paragraphs, or the same color to all links.

To target a particular tag, start by writing the name of the tag, followed by curly brackets.

{% highlight css %}
p{

 }
{% endhighlight %}

## Properties

The information that goes inside the brackets is made up of a collection of properties. There are properties for most visual elements you can think of, from font and color to layout.

We’ll set the text color on the paragraph tag:

{% highlight css %}
 p{
  	color: #990000;
  }
{% endhighlight %}

The name of the property is followed by a colon, then the value of the property. Each line ends with a semicolon. For the color property, the value is represented here as a hexadecimal color code.

***Some Properties to Start with:***

+ color
+ background-color
+ border

# Colors in CSS
Colors in CSS can be expressed in hexadecimal (as in **#ff3366**) or RGB (as in rgb(255,51,102) ) values. To find hexadecimal and RGB values for color, see this color picker.

Colors can be applied to many different properties. Here’s an example of tags with background and border colors:
