---
layout: post
title:  "Class 1"
date:   2016-01-11
categories: notes
permalink: class-1
---

# TOPICS

 + Class Introduction
 + Syllabus Overview
 + Intro to HTML
 + Server setup



# CLASS NOTES

**CSS** - controls how a page looks

**JAVASCRIPT** - controls how a page behaves

**HTML** - provides the essential structure and content of a web page


HTML is a markup language. It’s not a programming language because it doesn’t understand logic; it simply contains information about the structure and display of a document. HTML is a type of XML, or Extensible Markup Language, which is just a more general markup language.

# Intro to Tags

HTML is made up of tags. Tags give information about the content and display of text. Tags are simply little pieces of text starting with the less-than sign (<) and ending with the greater-than sign (>).

{% highlight ruby %}
<p>This is the tag for a paragraph</p>
{% endhighlight %}

# The Skeletal System
There are a few main tags that every web page must have. They are <html>,<head>,<title>, and <body>. So the very simplest web page looks like this in text view:

{% highlight ruby %}
<!DOCTYPE HTML>
<html>
 <head>
	<title>The name of my page</title>
 </head>

 <body>
  <p>Some information here.</p>
 </body>
</html>
{% endhighlight %}



<br>

---

<br>

## HOMEWORK 

#'Hello World'
Create a basic one page html document that displays "hello world" and make it live on the web. Save your page as hello-world.html.

Download a code editor, an FTP client, and the CU VPN client. Follow [these instructions](http://creative.colorado.edu/~schaal/web/pdf/creative-server-instructions.pdf) for connecting to the Creative Server. 

Upload your web page to your web directory (web folder inside the public_html directory) on the creative server

The purpose of the project is to set up your off-campus work/coding environment.